Transcription

Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zn4SYyJOxsQ

Hello, everyone, and welcome to today's call with Congressman Cliff Benz. During today's event, we'll be taking questions from constituents like you. So to ask a question, please press star 3 on your telephone keypad to enter the question queue. And during this call, you can also get signed up for the congressman's newsletter by pressing star 6. Again, press star 3 to ask a question and star 6 to subscribe to his e-newsletter.
With that, I'll turn it over to Congressman Benz. Congressman, the floor is yours, sir.
Thank you, Jerk, and welcome, everyone, to our third telephone town hall over the past five or six weeks. Before we go into the issues, I just want to remark on the success that these telephone town halls have had in reaching out. As many of you know, I had four live town hall meetings. Early in the year, we had:
1. 250 people up in Baker City,
2. About 500 people up in La Grande,
3. 350 people up in Pendleton,
4. About 150 people up in Boardman.
For a total of about 1,250 people, it's somewhat overstated because I think about 100 people or so kind of followed me from meeting to meeting. But that was still about 1,250 people over four counties.
In the past five weeks or so, we've held two previous town hall telephone meetings. And in the first one, we dialed Amplify as a group that's helping me, the communication experts for whom Dirk works. In the first town hall, about 100,000 people were dialed, 13,000 people stayed on the line. Last week on Tuesday, we dialed 50,000 people in another set of counties, 9,000 people stayed on the line. Tonight, we're doing Umatilla, Union, Baker, Gilliam, Malheur, Grant, Harney, Lake, Wallowa, Morrow, and Wheeler County. We will dial 50,000 people again, roughly, and we anticipate between 7,000 and 10,000 people will stay on the line.
This means that we will have reached 30,000 plus people over the past five or six weeks instead of what would have been something closer to 5,000 people had I continued to do live town hall meetings, which, by the way, I enjoy very much and I want to get back to them. But I will tell you we're going to continue to use the telephone town hall device regardless because we are so successful in reaching so many people.
I want to say also that this gives me an opportunity to speak without some of the challenges that go with live town hall meetings, one of which is a concern about intimidation and personal safety. In the past, I've generally had between five police officers present, and I think up on the ground we had 12 or 15. This particular approach allows me to not interfere with local law enforcement for setting up crowd control, if you will. So that's good news for local law enforcement because to this point we've not had to pay them. In the future, we'll have to look at that further.
I'm going to turn my attention to the issues now that I think would be of interest. The very first thing I want to talk about is the incredibly sad and terrifically unfortunate assassination of Charlie Kirk. And I must say I only, I believe, met him once, and that was many years ago. He was quite young and an impressive guy even at that time and since then has gone on to become a national personality.
I think it's best that I just read a few paragraphs from the resolution we adopted tonight when we voted on the floor of the House for a rule which was passed by zero Democrat votes and all Republican votes. And the rule will allow us to vote on this resolution tomorrow or Friday. I'm just going to read a couple of paragraphs which I think capture what Charlie Kirk stood for. And you can take a look at this resolution if you want to go online and take a look at it. But let me just read this:
Whereas Charlie Kirk personified the values of the First Amendment, exercising his God-given right to speak freely, challenge prevailing narratives, he did so with honor, courage, and respect for his fellow Americans.
Whereas Charlie Kirk's commitment to civil discussion and debate stood as a model for young Americans across the political spectrum, and he worked tirelessly to promote unity without compromising on conviction.
And the resolution goes on, but I just want to go to the last paragraph which I think captures what a lot of us are thinking.
WhereasCharlie Kirk would not have us respond to his death with despair, but rather with renewed purpose to speak truth with courage, to stand firm in faith, to seek unity while standing. firm in principle, and to serve as living reminders of the values he championed: faith, family, and freedom.
Now, this is something, this resolution, I think, that is what we were trying to do to let the nation know how much we appreciated Mr. Kirk's efforts to bring young people into discussions about our nation and how important it is to share our thoughts and to discuss things in a rational and civil manner. And that's what makes it so incredibly sad that he lost his life trying to do these really important things.
I'm now going to turn to some of the activities that we are having ongoing here in Congress. The first is the continuing resolution, which sadly we seem to have too many of, but the challenge we have is we're going through regular order on our appropriation bills, and there are many, many, many challenges when you do things in regular order, all of which take more time and effort, but we're getting closer and closer to getting our 12 appropriation bills finished. This is why it's anticipated that the CR, which I believe will probably pass out of the House tomorrow or the next day, and we believe that that will extend our current budget year to sometime in November, and that will give the Appropriation Committee's time to finish up their work, and hopefully we can get those across the floor, the remaining ones, and over to the Senate.
I want to say something about some of the points that came up in the last town hall. There were some questions about the retraction, if you will, rescission of the solar power tax credits. And I made a point of calling out some of the solar work I had done years ago in the Oregon legislature to help the property tax laws better fit the county's needs and the solar operators' needs. And those have been used to the benefit of counties across Oregon.
One thing that I don't think people understand, and one of the reasons I'm so happy to now be serving on the Energy and Commerce Committee, is that Oregon and the Northwest is incredibly close to moving into having rolling blackouts. And this is because of the incredible demand for power that is evidenced by the advent of the server farms from Amazon, Apple, and Google. And these businesses slurp up huge amounts of electrical power. And that, along with the unfortunate approach taken by environmental interests in reducing the amount of generation that we have in Oregon by removing dams. And it's not just the removing of dams, it's decommissioning the electrical generation on, for example, the Detroit Dam and others in the Willamette Valley. And what that is doing is removing firm power from our grid. And this is leaving us short of power, and really short. And so it's been explained to me that if we were to sustain a drought, a serious drought on the Columbia, we would not have enough electrical power in the Northwest to service current demand. And that is why solar is so important. It's because solar is available now if we could just figure out how to get transmission.
This doesn't mean I am advocating for solar everywhere all the time. I'm advocating for power any place I can get it over the next five to ten years as we move toward what I think is going to be a small nuclear reactor future. And I think also a realization that natural gas is going to be a bridge fuel, if not a permanent fixture in our grid and in our power generation space. So I just want to make it clear. Lots of people don't like solar. Many of us have discussed it with how it looks and what it does to otherwise agricultural setting. But on the other hand, I don't think anybody wants to go without electrical power. It's just too important and we're too close to not having enough. And most folks don't know that, but it's the truth. And so I've been working really, really hard with different people on the energy subcommittee on energy and commerce to try to addressthis issue.
So there are many other things, but I want to get to your questions. So let's do that. Let's go to the questions, Jerk, and look forward to hearing whatever you have to share with me tonight. Thank you very much, Congressman.
And a quick reminder for everybody that's joined us for this call, please press star 3 on your telephone keypad if you have a question that you would like to ask live on this call. Again, to get in the queue to ask a question, please press star 3 on your telephone keypad.
And let's get to our first caller. We've got Lawrence in Canyon City on the line with us. Lawrence, welcome to the call. You are live with Congressman Bentz. Go ahead with your question.
Yes, can you hear me?
I can hear you. Go right ahead.
Yeah, we live in Grant County. We have two sawmills in the area, and both of them are down right now, which means there's no place for the loggers to bring their logs to have them sawn, and that really affects the economy here. And I think the long term is if we don't get some timber moving into the sawmills here, it's going to affect the hospital. They laid off nine people today. It's going to affect the schools. Obviously, it's going to affect the loggers that live in the area as far as work. So looking at the long term, the economics of Grant County are not very good right now. So we need to get some sawmills going, and I know Iron Triangle is working hard to try to purchase Mount Here Lumber, but there's hurdles in the way. We just need some help. That would be my question. How are we going to do that?
Well, thanks for the question, and it happens that I met with Iron Triangle two weeks ago when I was in John Day, and I've also worked with Prairie Wood Products on getting them some of the money that they were owed by the Forest Service earlier this year. So I've worked with both groups, and they're both incredibly valuable to the area.
I will say that one of the things I've focused on since I got here and still remain on the Natural Resource Committee is working with Bruce Westerman, the chair of the Natural Resource Committee, to create legislation to get us back into the woods. And I'm happy to say that thanks to Mr. Westerman's excellent work and a whole bunch of work on all of our parts, we included in the big beautiful bill, which I refer to as the big bill, provisions that will help us get back into the woods. There are provisions that:
- Force an increase in the amount of timber that is going to be removed from the forest.
- Enforce, demand, and mandate that the Forest Service take out more wood each year.
- Provide for long-term contracts, the purpose of which was to help give sawmills a longer-term guaranteed supply of timber.
And, of course, we continue to work on other bills that would allow us to circumvent while still abiding by the requirements of the Endangered Species Act and other laws that provide a foundation for all kinds of litigation. We're doing our best to create ways that get us back into the woods while at the same time maintaining those and abiding by the law.
I will just say that this situation is becoming more, and you know this, it's more and more difficult because the more fuel that we have in the woods, the more dangerous the fires are and the more difficult it is to put them out and the more difficult it is to find anybody that wants to sell insurance to people who have homes anywhere in the neighborhood of a forest. And so these kinds of problems can only be addressed by reducing the amount of wood in the forest.
So I can guarantee you that not a day goes by here in Washington, D.C., where we don't talk about how to get wood out of the forest. And it's just good news that we have an administration right now that's totally in favor of increasing the amount of logging that goes on. In fact, today I met with folks that I think had just come from meetings with the White House and talking about the executive order we anticipate is going to be forthcoming from the Trump administration, which will sayget back into the woods. And then in that regard I'm working with people on a bill that would address increasing logging significantly in various places. And also, I hate to take so much time on this, but it's really, really, really important. Having jobs that actually pay well in places like Burns, John Day, Grants Pass, Klamath Falls, La Grande, my entire district, is incumbent upon and requires that we get back into the forest. And so, yes, I've been working on this and I remain a member of the National Resource Committee. So I guarantee you we're working on it and I think we're making some progress. So thanks for the question.
And our next caller with a question is Anthony in Athena. Anthony, you are live with the congressman. Go ahead with your question, please.
Hi, my question would be, what would the possibilities be, what can be done about bringing back generators to the dams that have open slots where no generators are currently being used or are being paused, per se, and not being utilized? How can we get those back online?
You know, that's a great question and I'm just reminded of a tour I did, I think the year before last, of the McNary Dam, and you look at that big long space of dam that has no generators in it, which of course it was supposed to have years ago when they designed the project, and yet it never happened, even though it was planned at the time. The problem, we have a couple of problems, but the good news is that under the current administration there is every reason to believe that they will support bringing those dams back into full production.
The problem that we have, and when I say we, I truly mean all of us, and this is why solar is still such an important thing, at least in the short run, is that now there's a six to eight year wait for a generator to be built of any significant size. And this is because there is this incredible demand for electricity being driven by the race to win the artificial intelligence race. And so as much as I would like to say we would put in generators tomorrow, we don't have them. In fact, I know that people are actually going around to old generators that aren't state of the art at all and trying to buy them up so that they can move them into places and put them to work. Because as we become shorter and shorter of electrical power, it gets more and more expensive.
And so this is why we need to look at types of generations that don't take generators. And one of those would be, of course, solar. But there's many reasons not to support solar, but in a pinch, we'll take it. But in the longer run, I believe that what you'll see is a realization that dams provide firm power and that water behind the dam is like a battery and we can control those hydro projects in a way that will maximize the value of intermittent power, which of course is wind and solar. So the whole idea is to have a balanced system and having more generation in those dams is a great idea. Like I said, the real question is where are we going to get the generators?
By the way, I met with Caterpillar Equipment just a few days ago and talked to them about the generation facilities, the manufacturing facilities, and there is an incredibly long line to get CAT generators. So it's a hugely necessary thing that we have more generators, but the line is growing longer every day, sadly. But I think we have support from the administration to get those generators back in.
Also, while we're talking about it, and forgive me for going on so long here, but it's super important, I've led the effort along with several of the congressmen, Dan Newhouse, for example, out of Washington State, to save the four lower Snake River dams. So in addition to trying to get more generation back into the river, certainly we want to keep the dams we've got from beingtaken out. So I'm happy to say that we have total support from the Trump administration in keeping those dams in the Snake. So real quickly, I think it's worth reiterating, the congressman and his staff put together a very informative e-newsletter, and you can get signed up to receive that right here, right now, during this event by pressing star 6 on your telephone keypad. So again, get signed up to stay informed with the congressman's e-newsletter by pressing star 6 on your telephone keypad.
And back out to a phone call, we've got Andrew from Pendleton. Andrew, you are live with Congressman Bentz. What's your question? Yes, my question is, are there any initiatives or interests in pursuing nuclear power, considering all the demands that are required for data centers and other power generation, instead of going after solar, which seems very inefficient and insufficient to supply those needs? And if not, why?
So there, I think just yesterday, actually, once again, I support nuclear completely. The question has always been, with nuclear, how do we ever actually get any of it in Oregon, any generation, when the Constitution years ago was amended to prohibit it? So the first thing that would have to happen in Oregon to make it happen is to change the Constitution. I think there's some enthusiasm for doing so. I hope there is, because nuclear, small nuclear reactors, I think, are the future.
In that regard, I've been working with several different groups, and it started with NuScale, nuclear out of Corvallis. I went down and visited their facility, I want to say, four years ago or five. They had a mock-up of a generation facility there in Corvallis, and I got to tour that and see how it worked. Unfortunately, they weren't big enough and didn't have the money to finish a really, really promising start. They had moved over to Idaho, to the National Engineering Lab out at Arco, and I think they have now coordinated with someone else. I don't know if they even exist as a company anymore.
But the focus now is in other people's hands that have enough money, literally billions of dollars, that it's going to take to finalize the first small-scale nuclear reactor. By the way, China already has one, and I think it has five more in the works, and so we're behind, and we can blame all kinds of people for it, but time for blame is over. What we need to be doing is figuring out how to start not only mining uranium in the United States, and I might point out there's a huge deposit of uranium down by McDermott, Nevada, and I think there are activities right now to try to put that mine into operation. I've met with those people several times.
The problem is you can mine uranium, but then there's a small matter of processing it. We currently only have one uranium processor in the United States. All the rest are, for the most part, in China, and so I've just had a meeting the other day where issues regarding how to fix this lack of processing is being addressed. It's being addressed aggressively by the Trump administration. I can assure you of that.
The bad part about this is, and you can Google this if you like, because I did, and the time frame between today and when we would see maybe a successful small nuclear reactor is three years, and so there's some thought that we might have one by the end of 2028, but you'll note, should you look it up, that they say might, could possibly, and use those kind of words. So these are complex, complex, complex things that need extreme care exercised to make sure they're safe, and it takes a long time and huge amounts of money, but we're getting closer to having them.
I want to mention one other thing, and that is the cost. There is no doubt about the lack of attractiveness of solar, but the cost of these systems is, in relative terms to nuclear, low. Let me just mention there was something like 200 gigawatts of solar on the drawing board for northeastern Oregon and Washington State. If we had it, that'd beone thing, but we don't have the transmission. We don't have the wire to move that power to where it needs to be. And getting transmission is extremely difficult. So even if we were able to throw open the doors to solar, finding ways of moving it to where it needs to be is extraordinarily difficult. That's why I've been working with Bonneville Power Administration and with the White House as recently as two weeks ago in having discussions regarding how to speed up transmission control by Bonneville Power. So we're working on all of these things, but the short answer to your question, I support nuclear, I'm on the right committee to try to help get there. We're having discussions right now, and companies are working at breakneck speed to try to get us there.
Next question. It is wonderful to see so many people have connected into this live telephone town hall with Congressman Cliff Vence. If you have a question you'd like to ask, all you need to do is press star three on your telephone keypad to enter the question queue. And also don't forget during this event, you can get signed up to receive the congressman's e-newsletter by pressing star six.
And we're off to Riley now where we've got Thomas joining us on the line. Thomas, you are live with the congressman. Go ahead, sir.
Hello, how are you, Cliff? This is Tom Davis out of Riley.
Hey, Tom. Okay, what I'm looking at is two issues. One you brought up on environmental groups suing to hold up logging, removing dams off the Klamath River and et cetera. How come are they on a nonprofit when they're multimillion dollar corporations?
Can you ask that again? You kind of mooshed out on me.
Oh, I'm talking about the environmental groups, the nonprofit environmental groups. Why are they on nonprofit status when they're multimillion dollar corporations?
What a great question. So I actually had my staff put together a list of the nonprofit organizations that file these lawsuits. And the amount of money that some of them have is in the three, $400 million range. They are structured as nonprofits. There has been discussion, I know, at the Trump administration level about levying some sort of a tax on them because they don't act like nonprofits. But the rules that currently are in place allow them to get away with it.
What I've been focusing upon is trying to call out to the public the damage that these nonprofits are doing by filing the type of lawsuits you are talking about. Because what happens is a lawsuit gets filed and then no one talks about who filed it. No one talks about the time it takes to try to ward off the lawsuit. No one talks about the fact that under the Access to Justice Act, these large corporations get their attorney fees from you and me, the taxpayers. And so I think one thing that we absolutely have to do is call out to the public where these lawsuits are filed, who filed them, how much money the people who filed them have, and at least point at these groups. And when a fire starts where they prevented us from going into the woods and removing stuff, we say, look, this group was responsible. This group is the one that should be blamed for the fire that burned up so many homes and all these other things.
The change starts with public opinion, and we need to be calling out as loudly as we can who it is, which type of organization it is that's stopping us from getting into the woods or stopping us from trying to create jobs for people using the assets that surround our remote towns. McDermott's a classic example. There's a lithium opportunity on the Oregon side of the border that's, I think, 16 square miles in size, one of the world's largest supplies of lithium. And right now the group that's trying to get that going has, I think, visited me two or three times. Immediately adjacent to it is this uranium opportunity. And my hope is that following the lead of the Grassy Mountain gold mine, which is making great progress, I'm happy to say, perhaps we'll actually start seeing some good jobs in Oregon based on mining. And it's my hope because of the stuff we're doing inside the big bill thatwe'll have more timber-related jobs.
To get back to your point is what can we do about it? Can we change the law? We're working on different aspects of that now, but in the short run, because Congress doesn't work very fast, so I'm the first one to point that out. In the short run, we just need to be calling out who it is that's to blame for keeping us out of the woods or keeping us out of some of the rare-earth mineral opportunities that exist across eastern Oregon and southern Oregon.
Next question. Absolutely, Congressman. Next up, we've got Monica from Hines. Monica, you are live with your Congressman. What's on your mind?
Hi, Congressman Bentz. I appreciate your call. My question has to do with our hospital. With it being in a rural area, two hours in any direction from anything, it's already hard on us to get some medical services out here. I am really worried about it closing down. So when the big bill came along and I realized what the Senate had done to it, I reached out to Dr. Oz, who is the head of CMS, and I said, Doctor, these changes that have been suggested in the Medicaid space are going to impact small hospitals like I have in my district. I have 11 of them, Burns being one, and I need to know that you have my back and my small hospital's back in addressing the changes that this big bill will work upon hospitals like the one in Burns.
I went to Burns with my team and met with the board about three months ago for, I want to say, two hours. It was a very enlightening meeting and brought to my attention many of the challenges that you guys face there. It's my job to do my best to try to protect the hospitals, whether they be in Burns or Medford or John Day or the Dalles. And to that end, I've had my staff reach out to these hospitals and to the federal clinics and to the nursing homes across my district. And what we're doing is we're trying to find out kind of what their current status is.
And as we just heard, there were layoffs up in the John Day area from that hospital. Many of the things that are in the big bill don't take effect for a couple of years, so there's time to try to get prepared for the reductions that are going to occur in some places. And to that end, I met with Dr. Oz actually yesterday morning briefly because he talked to us in our conference meeting and the night before that at one of the caucuses I belong to.
And once again, we went over in detail the $50 billion that's in the so-called transformation account. It's my understanding, and we're still trying to get the actual truth on this, that the $50 billion will be divided into half and that $25 billion will be allocated equally to the 50 states. And that means that Oregon would receive $100 million each year for five years out of half of that money. The other half, the other $25 billion, is going to be allocated based upon innovative ideas that are submitted by different states when it comes to trying to figure out how best to transform rural hospitals so that they do a better job, a more effective job, a long-term job of taking care of the people in their area.
I'll tell you one thing. Dr. Oz may be a talk show dude, but he's a smart one. And I'm very happy to have made his acquaintance, very happy to have his support. The starting place is going to be talking to the hospital and looking at the – well, talking to the governor and finding out what's going to happen to that $100 million that's coming in because it's supposed to go to rural hospitals. And we'll be checking to find out how that money is going to be allocated and for what purpose.
And it's, again, big money, but there's – I have 11 rural hospitals. There are many more scattered across the state, and we have to figure out how that initial bunch of money is going to be allocated. I would just say Kayla at my office here has been working in this space, and she's the one to contact regarding good ideas you might have on transformation.
And when I say the word transformation, it's not my idea. The idea was to understand that rural hospitals have been in trouble for a long time, have been challengedfor a long time. What can we do to try to make them work better, more efficiently, and to try to protect the folks in their area. The good news is that we have that $50 billion available. The challenging news is we're going to have to figure out how to come up with good ideas to use that money over the next five years to be ready for a more challenged space.
By the way, I want to say something about Medicaid. Many people have talked about reductions. I just want to say that at no time will the amount of money paid out in Medicaid be less than it was this year. What we have done in modifying the Medicaid space is that we have slowed its increase in amount. And so instead of going up like a skyrocket, it's going up more like an escalator. It's still going up. And the amount of money we're spending is going to be greater next year than it is this year. So, yes, there will be reductions, but it's a reduction in the amount of growth.
Anyway, I hope I've given you enough to think about. And then if you want to help us with the thought process, well, not help us, we'll try to help you because you guys know best what you think would help your hospital innovate and get ready for a more streamlined, less rapidly expanding health care space.
Next question. So I'd like to take a quick pause from the live questions and do a poll question. And that comes along with the technology we're using for this live event is an opportunity for everybody that's listening in to use your telephone keypad to respond to poll questions. And here is the poll question. I'll actually read it twice.
Do you support mail-in voting?
Please press 1 for yes, press 2 for no.
So, again, we're looking for everybody to answer this question. Do you support mail-in voting? Please press 1 for yes, press 2 for no. I see a number of people keying in their response. Thank you very much for participating in that poll question.
And don't forget, take a moment during this call to get signed up to receive the congressman's informative e-newsletter. You can do that by pressing star 6 on your telephone keypad. Again, get subscribed to the congressman's e-newsletter right now by pressing star 6.
And, congressman, we've got an online question from Mark who asks, where is the House of Representatives in passing the critical funding for counties and schools due to a high percentage of federal land within our stewardship that has been supplemented through secure schools and communities legislation?
Right. The PILT money, payment in lieu of tax money, has been distributed. The secure rural schools money is now in its third track to get passed. And to say that it's important would be the understatement of the year. We absolutely must have that money because, as everybody knows, it's being paid to us because we've been locked out of the forest for so long. And as I've said many times and as many county commissioners have told me, let us back into the woods and you can have your SRS money back.
It's a little challenging to explain exactly how it works back here, but we had thought that we had Senator Crapo, and he had thought that we could get the SRS money, first of all, in a standalone bill. That didn't happen. And then secondly, into the reconciliation package that we passed, the so-called big, beautiful bill. Somehow in the Senate, the money was stripped out of the reconciliation bill. No one seems to want to take responsibility for having done so, but it came out. Some people said it was because of the Senate parliamentarian saying it didn't fit. I don't think that was the case.
So we're still trying to figure out exactly why the money was taken out in the Senate for the secure rural schools. Whatever happened, we don't have the money or the bill at this particular point. I did speak yesterday to Congressman Mike Simpson about this on the floor. I said, hey, are we making moves in the right direction? He said, yes, we are. I said, a bunch of us are going to meet with Speaker Johnson on this exact issue. It's hopeful that we'll have that meeting tomorrow or the next day to go over how incredibly important the secure rural schools billis to Oregon and to many other states. I'll be going with a number of my friends to make that case to the Speaker and to say we need this bill. So we're working on it at least two fronts in the appropriation level with Mike Simpson and at the leadership level with Speaker Johnson. I will tell you it's a big number and we have a lot of support for the bill so I'm hopeful that we'll get it done. It's incredibly important to my community.
Next question. All right next up we've got Keith and Kimberly joining us. Keith you are live with the congressman. What is your question? Thank you congressman for taking my call. I'm concerned about the data centers. It seems that these data centers use like vast amounts of water which affects the communities which they're built in and it's passing the costs on to constituents. Not so much in Prineville there but they are expanding that and they do use 6% of the water. And I don't know for sure if it's affecting the price of the water for the Prineville area but to use an example like in Georgia some of those data centers the water they use I mean their water bills are doubling in price. And I think it would be only fair to come up with other technologies to cool these data centers other than water and passing it on to the constituents instead of the and if they do have to pay the costs that the company itself should pay the cost for the increased water not the constituents. Thank you.
Well I think your question goes equally toward electrical power and I'll just say that there's this artificial intelligence race in the committee I am on because it's one of the committees that has jurisdiction over the idea and the area of artificial intelligence is being treated as it probably should be as an existential issue when it comes to our race with China. And so on the one hand you go what in the world these huge monsters server farms are slurping up so much power and so much water who should be paying? Well of course we want the parties that are getting the benefit of that power and that water to be paying for it. I'll just say that my understanding I'm not talking about Prineville because I'm not exactly clear on exactly where Prineville's operations are getting their water but I do know that the water Google in the Dallas is coming out of the Columbia and then to a lesser extent from city water but mostly the Columbia the server farms up in the Hermiston area are also relying upon water rights out of the Columbia that they have acquired. And I could go on with the server farms up in Washington State. There's been some discussion about different utilities trying to allocate the higher cost of power because of the demand to these server farms and that's an issue that is being debated here. It's not on the front burner but I think it's going to be.
When it comes to the water it's generally up to the state to control its water not the federal government. And so I think what concerns about water consumption and water rights are probably best addressed to your state representatives and state senators and to the Oregon Water Resources Department. It is of concern but I believe that's the proper agency to have jurisdiction over it. I've been pretty careful when I was chair of the water committee and ranking member for four years that I didn't try to expand federal jurisdiction over water. There's already enough water grabs going on under the Endangered Species Act. So I think your question is probably best addressed to your senator. I think it's McClain there and you can ask him if he's stepping in to try to do something. He's from Powell Butte so he would know all about Prineville.
Next question. It is so important to stay informed and stay updated and it's very easy to do. Get subscribed right now to the congressman's e-newsletterand always be informed. Again, to do that during this call press star six on your telephone keypad to get subscribed. During this call, press star 6 on your telephone keypad to get subscribed. Now, Congressman, we have another online question. And this one was submitted by Meredith, who wonders, when will the Epstein files be released?
Right. So this has been an issue that we in Congress have been struggling with because we're trying to figure out how to make sure that the people who were victims of this monster, Jeffrey Epstein, are not damaged further by the release of materials that include their names.
The comparison that's being used is a comparison between what's going on in Congressman Comer's investigation in one of our oversight committees here on the one hand, and then Representative Massey's discharge petition, which is advice that he's using. If you get enough congresspeople to sign on to it, then the discharge petition becomes, well, it gets voted upon. And if it were to pass, then the concept would be that it would, if passed by the Senate, force the disclosure of all non-classified information to the public.
The problem that we have is that, first of all, the discharge petition that Massey has suggested, which I do not support, is not crafted properly to protect the innocent. Whereas the Comer approach, it not only is crafted to protect those who we do not want. Some people have said as many as 1,000 people were damaged by this monster and people with him. And the trick is, how in the world do we get as much information to the public as we can without doing more damage while we're at it?
I do want to walk down through a comparison of Jim Comer's work on the one hand and the oversight committee against the discharge petition, Massey's discharge petition on the other, because that's the choice that faces us.
Let me just say that when they were drafting, when Massey was drafting this petition, he should have exercised far more care, because right now, Comer's oversight investigation requested all the documents from the Epstein estate related to Epstein and Maxwell with subpoena, and that subpoena has the force of law, so he will get those documents. But the resolution that Massey prepared didn't request those documents. So even if the discharge petition were to pass, it wouldn't include much of the material that I think the public is very interested in.
On the Comer side, he issued 11 deposition subpoenas for testimony. The discharge petition Massey came up with didn't request the types of things that are in those subpoenas. So again, if his was to pass, it would be short the materials I just mentioned.
The Comer investigation requested Epstein and Maxwell's bank records from the Treasury. These were not requested in Massey's discharge petition. The 34,000 pages that were received from the DOJ were made public, and the documents have not been made public that were requested by Resolution 581 by Massey. One deposition has already been taken by Comer. Again, no testimony was received or would be received under Massey's approach. Interviews have been scheduled under the Comer investigation. Declarations have been confirmed.
I mean, the problem with Massey's approach is it's inadequate and incomplete. The Comer investigation will get, I think, the public far more than that which the Massey petition would get. And I'll just stop there. It's an important thing because what we really are trying to do is figure out how in the world this monster got away with such horrific actions and the people with him, and we don't want it to happen again. And if ever there was a breakdown in federal and state law, it was the Epstein situation. So we're trying to sort that out, and the best way to do it is Comer's oversight investigation.
Next question. So next up, we've got James from Stanfield. James, you are live with Congressman Bentz. Go ahead with your question.
Hello. So I archery hunt with my daughter up in the National Forest by Ukiah, and we've had a run-in with some wolves up there that have seemed to have lost their fear of humans and are circling us, and it's getting kind of scary with my 14-year-olddaughter. What do we do, and what are we going to do as a state about it? Well, what we're doing about it is we have a bill that would remove the protections of the Endangered Species Act by delisting the wolf and allowing the state of Oregon to do its job in allowing you to manage a situation like that appropriately. I will tell you right now that if a wolf is threatening your life, then you need to shoot it.
As you may know, there was a wolf that was down in the south end of my district outside of Klamath Falls when we had put a snow on the ground or so, and it was wearing a collar. We had been working with the Biden administration, U.S. Fish and Wildlife, to try to harass the wolf. And then the administration's changed, and two days afterwards, the wolf made the mistake of going too close to a bus stop with kids, and the next day the wolf was dead. And that was because the U.S. Fish, under the Trump administration, stepped up, called me and said, hey, we're going to kill the wolf. It got too close to little kids. And they killed it.
Okay, that reflects something you're allowed to do under the Endangered Species Act, but the better approach is to get the wolf delisted in the portion of Oregon and Washington State, which is almost treated the same as Oregon. And we have a bill, and it's my hope that we'll get a hearing on that bill in the relative near future. Lauren Boebert has another bill. She is trying to get the wolf delisted in all the rest of the United States. I support both bills. The real issue is which one can we actually get passed in both the House and the Senate. It's my hope that my bill, if Lauren doesn't get across through the Senate, that my bill will. And that will give us better chances to more correctly address the situation that you're talking about.
But when I was chair of the Water and Wildlife Subcommittee, I held a hearing on, I actually held three small hearings across my district on wolves and then had a formal field hearing up in Minnesota. They have between 4,000 and 6,000 wolves up there. And so we held it hugely well attended. And there's great support for us trying to get the court out of the way and the wolf delisted.
Next question. Well, Congressman, due to the clock, it looks like that's all the time we have for questions. But I would like to make sure that I do provide the results from the poll question that we asked earlier. And the results are as follows:
The question was, do you support mail-in voting?
1. 61% of the people that responded to that question said no, they do not.
2. 39% said yes.
So thank you for everybody that participated. Your input is very valuable to us.
The other thing that's valuable here, Congressman, as we begin to wrap up this call, are some words of wisdom or insights that you'd like to share with us. First of all, I want to thank everybody for participating. I must say that I very much enjoyed the opportunity to speak to you and answer these kinds of questions. It's my hope that we'll be able to go back and have a live town hall meeting. I'm guessing that what we'll be doing is trying to figure out ways of doing that probably early next year, given how the schedule is working out.
In the meantime, I'll be visiting different places across the district as I have over the past several weeks. And you can drop in on me wherever I might be. My hope is that those interactions will be civil and allow us to exchange thoughts and ideas in a rational way. I want to say that the issues we're facing back here are complicated, and your insights and thoughts are hugely valuable to me, just as this poll was on mail-in voting.
What I've explained to people when the president has come out opposed to mail-in voting, and when people have asked me where I am, I've said, look, the most important thing is that however we vote, people believe in the result. And if people want to change out of mail-in voting, it's because I'm guessing they don't believe in the result. And so it'll be my effort to try to figure out, using methods just like this, to see what the folks I represent want me to do based on this one poll. It sounds as though people would like me to join the president and try to figure out how to affect some sort of a change.
I want to point out that states are supposed to be in charge of the ways and means of voting, and the federal government is supposed to stay pretty muchout of it. On the other hand, there are certain basic things that need to happen in voting, and we'll be talking about the proper balance between. between federal intervention and where the states should be.
I just want to mention one last thing. I'm very concerned, of course, about the chilling effect that Charlie Kirk's death has had upon people going out in public. I made the decision that I was going to continue to go out in public, and to that end, I had hoped to be in the Pendleton Roundup Parade, and I went to the airport Thursday, a week ago Thursday night, the purpose of which was to catch the plane to Minnesota, catch the plane out of Minnesota to Boise, hop in the car, get to Pendleton time for the parade, and walk in the parade. I was actually going to join Senator Nash. As it turned out, my plane was delayed, and then delayed again, and delayed again, and I ended up after spending four hours in the DCA airport going back to my apartment, spending the night there, and flying out the next day. So I got to miss the parade, which is very unfortunate.
But I just want to clear, I'll still be appearing all over the place, but we can't allow these kind of situations to interfere with interaction. And again, I just want to say how sorry I am for Charlie Kirk's family and little kids.
And my last remark has to do with the most important thing, and I don't know if you folks have had a chance to see Coach Lanning's remarks, the U of O coach, and I would recommend you go online and pull up his speech that he gave about Charlie Kirk. But the most important thing he says in that speech is we've got to take care of our kids and keep them safe.
And so I would be going and talking to my school board to that end. I've been having one of my staff reach out to various school districts to ascertain how they're protecting our little kids. And so I would strongly, strongly recommend that people reach out to their school boards and verify that we're protecting the most valuable thing we've got, which is our kids.
And with that, I just want to thank all of you for joining me tonight, and I look forward to having more of these kinds of meetings and I look forward to seeing you in district. Take care and stay safe.
I'd like to echo the words of thanks to everybody for participating in today's telephone town hall.